---
id: 131
state: approved
created: 2019-01-22
placement:
  category: operations
  order: 10
---

# Standard methods: Get

In REST APIs, it is customary to make a `GET` request to a resource's URI (for
example, `/v1/publishers/{publisher}/books/{book}`) in order to retrieve that
resource.

Resource-oriented design ([AIP-121][]) honors this pattern through the `Get`
method. These RPCs accept the URI representing that resource and return the
resource.

## Guidance

APIs **should** generally provide a get method for resources unless it is not
valuable for users to do so. The purpose of the get method is to return data
from a single resource.

Get methods are specified using the following pattern:

```proto
rpc GetBook(GetBookRequest) returns (Book) {
  option (google.api.http) = {
    get: "/v1/publishers/{publisher_id}/books/{book_id}"
  };
}
```

- The RPC's name **must** begin with the word `Get`. The remainder of the RPC
  name **should** be the singular form of the resource's message name.
- The request message **must** match the RPC name, with a `-Request` suffix.
- The response message **must** be the resource itself. (There is no
  `GetBookResponse`.)
  - The response **should** usually include the fully-populated resource unless
    there is a reason to return a partial response (see [AIP-157][]).
- The HTTP verb **must** be `GET`.
- The URI **should** contain a set of variable fields corresponding to the
  resource's identity.
  - This fields **should** be called `{resource}_id` (`publisher_id` and `book_id` in this case).
  - The URI **should** have variables corresponding to these fields.
  - The `{resource}_id` fields **should** be the only variables in the URI path. All
    remaining parameters **should** map to URI query parameters.
- There **must not** be a `body` key in the `google.api.http` annotation.

### Request message

Get methods implement a common request message pattern:

```proto
message GetBookRequest {
  // The publisher ID of the book to retrieve.
  string publisher_id = 1 [
    (google.api.field_behavior) = REQUIRED,
    (google.api.resource_reference) = {
      type: "library.googleapis.com/Publisher"
    }];

  // The ID of the book to retrieve.
  string book_id = 2 [
    (google.api.field_behavior) = REQUIRED,
    (google.api.resource_reference) = {
      type: "library.googleapis.com/Book"
    }];
}
```

- A resource's identity fields **must** be included. They **should** be called `{resource}_id`.
  - The fields **should** be [annotated as required][aip-203].
  - The fields **should** identify the [resource type][aip-123] that it
    references.
- The request message **must not** contain any other required fields, and
  **should not** contain other optional fields except those described in
  another AIP.

**Note:** The `{resource}_id` fields in the request object corresponds to the `{resource}_id`
variables in the `google.api.http` annotation on the RPC. This causes the `{resource}_id`
fields in the request to be populated based on the value in the URL when the
REST/JSON interface is used.

[aip-121]: ./0121.md
[aip-123]: ./0123.md
[aip-157]: ./0157.md
[aip-203]: ./0203.md

### Errors

If the user does not have permission to access the resource, regardless of
whether or not it exists, the service **must** error with `PERMISSION_DENIED`
(HTTP 403). Permission **must** be checked prior to checking if the resource
exists.

If the user does have proper permission, but the requested resource does not
exist, the service **must** error with `NOT_FOUND` (HTTP 404).

## Changelog

- **2020-06-08**: Added guidance on returning the full resource.
- **2019-10-18**: Added guidance on annotations.
- **2019-08-12**: Added guidance for error cases.
- **2019-08-01**: Changed the examples from "shelves" to "publishers", to
  present a better example of resource ownership.
- **2019-05-29**: Added an explicit prohibition on arbitrary fields in standard
  methods.
- **2022-05-25**: Customized for Pinwheel API use
